Java programming language is mainly designed to overcome the disadvantages of C and C++ and to develop internet applications by achieving platform independence.

Java comes in three different editions, allowing us to develop three different types of applications. The three different editions are
JSE (java standard edition)
JEE (java enterprise edition)
JME (java micro edition)
These three different types of editions allow us to develop three different types of applications. They are as follows:
Standalone/Desktop application
Enterprise / Distributed / Internet application
Device application

What is Platform Dependent?
The programs or applications compiled on one platform (operating system) can be executed on the same type of operating 
system. Still, they cannot be executed on other types of operating systems, which are called platform-independent 
applications.

Platform Independent:
If the applications complied code can run on different types of OS irrespective of the OS where it is compiled,
then such applications are called platform-independent applications. The programming language used for developing 
such types of applications is the platform-independent programming language. Java is a platform-independent
programming language because the Java program compiled code can execute (run) on any OS.

In this case, when the source code is compiled, the compiler generates intermediate code (byte code) rather 
than machine code, which is not specific to any OS. The intermediate code can be carried and executed on any machine 
provided by a software called JVM which is responsible for converting intermediate code into machine code

What is Byte Code?
Java programs compiled code is called byte code. The Java compiler (javac) generates a byte code (intermediate code) when the Java code is compiled.

Byte code is an intermediate language (IL) code.
Byte code is a virtual machine code.
Byte code is a platform-independent code.
Byte code is the collection of mnemonics (MOVE, LOAD, ADD ETC); these byte codes are only understood by JVM.
Every byte code occupies 1 byte.

