Environment Setup for Java Application Development step by step
Download and Install Java JDK8
This Java Development Kit (JDK) allows you to code and run Java programs. It’s possible that you install multiple JDK versions on the same PC.
But it’s recommended that you install only the latest version.
Download and Install JDK8 in Windows
Accept License Agreement
Download the latest Java JDK for your version (32 or 64 bit) of java for Windows.
Once the download is complete, run the exe for install JDK. Click Next.
Select the PATH for Java installation and click next.

Once the installation is complete click Close.

Set Environment Variables in Java: Path and Classpath
The PATH variable gives the location of executables like javac, java, etc. It is possible to run a program without specifying the PATH but you will need to give full path of executable like C:\Program Files\Java\jdk-13.0.1\bin\javac A.java instead of simple javac A.java. The CLASSPATH variable gives the location of the Library FilesFollowing are the steps to set Environment Variables in Java :
Step1: Right Click on My Computer and select the properties.
Click on Advanced system settings.
Click on Environment Variables.
Click on the new Button of User variables.
Type PATH in the Variable name.
Copy the path of the bin folder which is installed in the JDK folder.
Paste Path of bin folder in Variable value and click on OK Button.
In case you already have a PATH variable created in your PC, edit the PATH variable to

PATH = <JDK installation directory>\bin;%PATH%;
You can follow a similar process to set CLASSPATH.
Click on the OK button


Go to the command prompt and type javac commands.

If you see a screen like below, Java is installed.



ECLIPSE ---

Download and Install Eclipse to Run Java
Following is a step by step guide to download and install Eclipse IDE:

Step1: Open your browser and type https://www.eclipse.org/
Step2: Click on the Download button.
Step3: Click on the “Download 64-bit” button
Step4: Click on the “Download” button

Install Eclipse.

Click on “downloads” in Windows file explorer.
Click on the “eclipse-inst-win64.exe” file.
Click on “Run as administrator”
Click on “Eclipse IDE for Java Developers”
Click on the “INSTALL” button
Click on the “LAUNCH” button
Browse the workspace of your choice and click on the “Launch” button.
Click on the “Create a new Java project” link. And your Eclipse IDE is ready to use.

