History of Java
-----------------

The history of Java is very interesting.Java was originally designed for interactive television, but it was too 
advanced technology for the digital cable television industry at the time. The history of Java starts with the 
Green Team. Java team members (also known as Green Team), initiated this project to develop a language for digital
devices such as set-top boxes, televisions, etc. However, it was best suited for internet programming.
The principles for creating Java programming were
      "Simple,        Robust,
       Portable,      Platform-independent, 
       Secured,       High Performance, 
       Multithreaded, Architecture Neutral, 
       Object-Oriented, Interpreted, 
       and Dynamic". 
Java was developed by James Gosling, who is known as the father of Java, in 1995. James Gosling and his team
members started the project in the early '90s.

James Gosling - founder of java
Currently, Java is used in internet programming, mobile devices, games, e-business solutions, etc.

James Gosling, Mike Sheridan, and Patrick Naughton initiated the Java language project in June 1991. 
The small team of sun engineers called Green Team.
Firstly, it was called "Greentalk" by James Gosling, and the file extension was .gt.
After that, it was called Oak and was developed as a part of the Green project.
In 1995, Oak was renamed as "Java" because it was already a trademark by Oak Technologies.
According to James Gosling, "Java was one of the top choices along with Silk". Since Java was so unique, most of
the team members preferred Java than other names.
Java is an island in Indonesia where the first coffee was produced (called Java coffee). It is a kind of espresso
bean. Java name was chosen by James Gosling while having a cup of coffee nearby his office.
Initially developed by James Gosling at Sun Microsystems (which is now a subsidiary of Oracle Corporation)
and released in 1995.
In 1995, Time magazine called Java one of the Ten Best Products of 1995.
JDK 1.0 was released on January 23, 1996. After the first release of Java, there have been many additional 
features added to the language. Now Java is being used in Windows applications, Web applications, enterprise
applications, mobile applications, cards, etc. Each new version adds new features in Java.
